if you do not leave you will be arrested
Yale University in Connecticut has
become another flasho in the conflict
between Pro Palestinian demonstrators
and University
administrators up
with OCC down down with
occupation police let away 47 protesters
at Yale on Monday morning the
demonstrators have been camped at a
University Plaza since Friday protesting
Yale's refusal to divest from military
weapons manufacturers the protesters
claim that makes Yale complicit in
Israel's genocide in
[Applause]
Gaza meanwhile administrators at
Columbia University in New York City
cancelled in-person classes on Monday
citing some Jewish students complaints
that they felt unsafe after more than a
hundred Pro Palestinian demonstrators
were arrested last week it's time for us
to to show that yes we we we want to be
visible the university should do
something about what we're asking about
the genocide that's happening that's
happening in Gaza they should be they
should stop investing in this in this
genocide that our people is uh now uh
suffering
from some of the anti-israel protesters
at Colombia are Jewish themselves but a
school affiliated Rabbi over the weekend
urged Jewish students to return home for
their own
safety videos on social media like this
one apparently show a protester calling
on the armed wing of Hamas to Target
Jewish students but New York City Police
tried to Tamp down the fear there's been
no credible threats to any particular
group or individual um coming from this
protest or or or any other Columbia's
President says the university is adding
more than a 100 additional safety
personnel as protesters have returned to
campus President Biden addressed the
continuing University protest on Monday
do you condemn the anti-semitic protests
on college campuses I condemn the
anti-semitic protest that's why I've set
up a program to deal with that I also
condemn those who don't understand
what's going on with the Palestinians
student protest leaders denied charges
of anti-Semitism and said the
demonstrators have been peaceful now
protests are spreading to still more
schools with students at NYU and MIT
being the latest to join the pro
Palestinian movement Heidi Joe Castro Al
jazer
Washington and in the last few hours
police officers have cleared out the New
York University protest after hundreds
of demonstrators defied warnings and
refused to leave and were getting
reports students and faculty were
detained a New York police spokesperson
said arrests were made after the
university asked police to enforce
trespassing violations let's bring in
Helga thewi Suri an associate professor
at the department of Middle East and
Islamic Studies at New York University
and she's joining us live from New York
thank you very much for your time I
understand that you're actually
somewhere outside a police station
waiting for one of your colleagues to be
released can you tell us what happened
to the
protest sure yeah thanks for having us
um I'm waiting actually for many
colleagues and many students to be
released and I am outside of the police
station um so as of this morning is
about 4 4:30 a.m. um a number of
students started their
encampment uh in protest of what's been
happening in Palestine but also in
support of sort of pro Palestine rights
and freedom of speech freedom of
expression as well as in solidarity with
um other students at Colombia and
elsewhere across the country and so they
set up uh tents and encampment and as
soon as they started uh campus security
tried to uh block that off already and
also called in the NYPD and then um
eventually the NYPD kind of backed away
and the students remain there all day uh
peacefully protesting sort of chanting
and so on and uh you know supporters
came at this point there was a barricade
that was set up between the students and
um uh and sort of a space kind of
outside of Campus if you want but NYU is
a very Urban campus there was no inside
and outside but in any case the students
were there all day um uh those that were
in kind of in the encampments and then
those that were also sort of protesting
um from across the street and uh it was
peaceful there was no one was hurt
nothing happened but um you know I think
both the uh New York um the New York
University campus uh security guards uh
just would not sort of allow for a lot
of movement and would not back down and
eventually uh brought in the NYPD yeah
the um NYU has said that following a
breach in the barrier set up at Gold FAA
the head of nyu's global campus safety
said that you know the one safety
requirement we made was that no
additional protesters could enter gold
Plaza so was the problem that the
university had that they just didn't
want people from outside the university
to join those protesting I mean what
what what did they tell you about um why
they've arrested students and
faculty yeah I mean they didn't want
anybody not not just people from outside
of the University but they wouldn't
allow extra students for extra faculty
to actually come onto the plaza as well
so I think you know they were telling us
that it the concern was for people that
were Beyond NYU but they wouldn't even
let people from NYU kind of join uh the
peaceful protesters on the Plaza and So
eventually when the police uh when they
finally brought the police in uh later
in the evening around um I'm going to
say like 7:30 8:00 P.M or so um they
charged us with trespassing even though
we are NYU faculty members and NYU
students um I don't know how we trespass
on our own campus but that was the sort
of charge against us and they brought in
hundreds of of policemen and riot gear
uh to uh to to stop the encampment yeah
it certainly seems like a very bizarre
charge for the reason that you just
mentioned I I I wonder if there are
other you know protests against other
issues at NYU if there's a similar
response um to the one that we've seen
what's been and what's been your
experience in American universities of
showing solidarity with
Palestinians um so I've been at NYU for
almost 20 years and I can you know I've
seen a number of protests happening I
don't think I have ever seen anything of
a Crackdown of this nature um and such
kind of you know um over-the-top if you
want uh sort of response on the part of
of campus security and then on the part
of NYPD and I think it's just reflective
of attempt across the country to sort of
crack down on what is being called you
know Pro Palestine speech right so yes
this is pro Palestine this is also
obviously kind of trying to raise
awareness about what's happening in
Palestine but it's also a question of
academic freedom and freeding of
expression as well as the freedom to ga
uh particularly on one's own campus so I
think what we've seen over the last
weeks the last few months is really very
very harsh crackdowns on on students and
and in this case also students and
faculty who who are doing who are
leading these T again peaceful protests
Helga the sui of uh New York University
thank you so much for joining us uh on
this important issue we really
appreciate
it make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer